Draft release comms data link (#173)
SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-blog: blog/2024-11-27-release-comms-data-link/index.mdx

---
slug: comms-nov2024
title: |

>   🎉 Highlights from the Latest RenkuLab Releases! 🚀

Reviewer: Now that I see it in context of our blog, the emojis seem over the top 😉 Also, I'm adding the summary to the title so the post titles are skim-able.
```suggestion
  Highlights from the Latest RenkuLab Releases: Share-able data connectors & Bring-your-own-image to Renku Sessions
```

authors: [laura]
tags:
  - Release
  - Renku 2.0
  - Data Connector
image: ./image_1.png
description: Reuse data connectors across projects and bring your own image into Renku
---

![Renku Data Connectors](./image_1.png)

We’ve been busy behind the scenes, and now it’s time to share some of the exciting updates we’ve rolled out over our last few releases. These features are part of the Renku 2.0 beta, designed to to empower collaboration and make it easier to connect and share data, code, and compute resources. Here’s a quick tour of what’s new.

<!-- truncate -->

### **Reuse Data Connectors Across Projects**

Sharing is caring, and now Renku makes it easier than ever to share and reuse data connectors (formerly called data sources) across projects. Instead of re-entering connection details every time, you can now reuse existing data connectors from your group or even other shared projects!

📌 *How it works*: Copy the identifier of an existing data (1) and link it to your project with just a few clicks (2,3).

![Copy and reuse a data connector](./image_2.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Check out the How To guide: [How to link a data connector to your project](https://renku.notion.site/Quick-Start-tutorial-1460df2efafc80998204c1f61e333e63?p=1220df2efafc8021a4e7e6012d3a18aa&pm=s)

```

This feature saves time, reduces duplication, and encourages collaboration. We can’t wait to see how you’ll use it!

---

### **Expanded Support to “Bring Your Own Image” to RenkuLab**

Calling all power users: You now have more flexibility when running custom images in RenkuLab sessions! Previously, your image needed to include JupyterServer. That’s no longer the case! Now, you can bring almost any Docker image that fits your needs.

> 🔗 Check out the How To guide: [How to use your own docker image for a session launcher](https://www.notion.so/How-to-use-your-own-docker-image-for-a-session-launcher-11f0df2efafc80af848ffcaf9ccff31c?pvs=21)

Reviewer: I accidentally put the notion app link, rather than the weblink!
```suggestion
🔗 Check out the How To guide: [How to use your own docker image for a session launcher](https://renku.notion.site/How-to-use-your-own-docker-image-for-a-session-launcher-11f0df2efafc80af848ffcaf9ccff31c)
```

This change won’t affect most users right now, but it’s part of a broader vision to make customizing session environments easier for everyone. We’re working on even more exciting updates to support your workflows—stay tuned!

---

### **Bug Fix: GitHub Connection Issue**

We’ve resolved a pesky issue that was causing trouble for some users when connecting their GitHub accounts. Thanks for your patience while we tracked this one down!

---

💡 **Want to explore all the details?** Check out the [full release notes](https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku/releases).

---

### **Join the Renku 2.0 Beta!**

All these updates are part of the Renku 2.0 beta, designed to empower collaborative research and support open data sharing. We’re actively inviting new beta testers to join us. Interested? [Get in touch](https://www.notion.so/dd098db288ff433893a4d4d429da99c1?pvs=21)—we’d love to hear from you!

> As always, thank you for being part of the Renku community. Your feedback and input help us shape a platform that supports open, collaborative research. Don’t hesitate to [reach out](https://www.notion.so/dd098db288ff433893a4d4d429da99c1?pvs=21)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As always, thank you for being part of the Renku community. Your feedback and input help us shape a platform that supports open, collaborative research. Don’t hesitate to [reach out](https://renku.notion.site/Contact-dd098db288ff433893a4d4d429da99c1?pvs=74)!
```

---
slug: comms-nov2024
title: |
  🎉 Highlights from the Latest RenkuLab Releases! 🚀
authors: [laura]
tags:
  - Release
  - Renku 2.0
  - Data Connector
image: ./image_1.png
description: Reuse data connectors across projects and bring your own image into Renku
---

![Renku Data Connectors](./image_1.png)

> <!-- truncate -->

Reviewer 2: I really think you should truncate after the first paragraph here.

Reviewer 2: ![Screenshot 2024-11-28 at 09 21 24](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5d7d4dbc-40ec-4f84-b677-aa4b00319e31)

Author: Is it fine like this?

Reviewer 2: 👍
